Professor Abdul Bari

The difference between Algorithm and Program

Algorithm:
          -> Design
          -> Domain Knowledge
          -> Any Language
          -> Analyze

Program:
        -> Implementation
        -> Programmer
        -> Programing Language
        -> Testing

Conclusion:
    In conclusion Algorithm is the person who design the perfect match to a Program
it can explain it by any comfort language they analyze it if it is the best on time complexity how effecient
the design was to a program and space complexity which is how you use a memory on a computer
using the algorithm design. While Program is the one who implements the design to a readable code any language of
of Program then test it multiple times to get the perfect design and working algorithm in a code.


Priori Analysis:
        -> Algorithm
        -> Independent of Language
        -> Hardware Independent
        -> Time and Space Function

Posteriori Testing:
        -> Program
        -> Language Dependent
        -> Hardware Dependent
        -> Watch Time and Bytes

Conclusion:
    So Priori Analysis like I said in the last explainaton in vid 1, is that it analyze time and space, every
milisecond, minute, hour or seconds in an algorithm, and Priori Analysis is Independent language
and aslwell as the Hardware. About the Posteriori testing is where a program execute and test the algorithm that
was created, and check it how it works and how much it consumed in bytes and time, and so Posteriori is Dependent to
Hardware.


Characteristice Of Algorithm:
        -> Input (Should have an input of zero or more)
        -> Output (Algorithm always should have an output atleast one)
        -> Definiteness (Code must understandable)
        -> Finiteness (Algorithm is limited its should stop the moment it finished)
        -> Effectiveness (Must not have an unecessary experiment that won't be use anyway
            in the program of algorithm)

Conclusion:
    Conclusion for everything is algorithm must always has an input of zero or more, then it has atleast
one output, and it must be understandable avoiding unecessary thing something like that. 
and it must be limited not unlimited because algorithm should stop at the moment it finished the pogram or the testing
Effectiveness as I said must not have an unecessary experiment that will ended up waste of effort and will ended up not
benefiting to the algorithm.........................


How To Analyze an Algorithm:
        -> Time (How much time does it takes to run the algorithm)
        -> Space (how much memory used by an algorithm)
        -> Network Consumption (How much data is done from a server either netword or cloud)
        -> Power Consumption (Important for tablet if purpose to create applction)
        -> CPU Registers

        every statement we do is using a time of 1 unit of time which is a constant
it is fixed, and every word or variables is also a 1 which is constand again

    So in conclusion to analyze an algorith must be step by step with checkin how 
effecient the time consuming in algorithm program, like how deos it takes to finish the program
or how you define it detial and design it. Space how much the algorithm used in memory of a computer or android
must analyze the memory consumed. then other, one of them is Networkconsumption, how well it handle the data and
how much it is done in a server or cloud, then power consumption because if you create like an application for
tablet or android it must be know how it consumed in power, and lasty CPU Registers I forget abt this.


    every statement in the code and every variable is having purpose on it and has a memory used and
like an algorithm to analyze it we must read the code line by line by he execution of the code, and every statement 
is constant which is the unit of 1. every loop is has a value like n + 1 or n x n.


    space complexity is how much used in memory while executing the code and every line of code has used
some memory which is it analyze and read and to put an overall how much it cost it on the memory 
in specific program.


    it talks all about loop trough multiple iteration it may be divide, increamenting, decrreamenting and multiplication.
it discussed some of theory about time complexity and has a different approuch of them, like O(log log n) and O(n) these are
big common of the order of O or big O notation. Furthermore he talk a lot of loop it may nested, or independent loop
and in one o f the last video which is the summarry of loops that he use theoritize, it determining the complexity of each big o 
notation


Asymptotic Notation:
    Big O Notation - [it represent the upper bound of a function. it provides a worst case scenario or a growth limit for a function]
    Big Omega Notation - [represent the lower bound of a function. it defines a growth floor]
    Theta Notation - [it represent the average bound of a function, essentially stating that the function is both upper
                    and lower bounded by the same growth rate]
    
    these emphasizes that these notation are not inherently linked to best-case or worst-case Analysis
Big O(n) - big o notation is the ceiling it is the worst casE algorithm of analyzing a time complexity. the best case 
is only when you compare it one.
Big Omega(n) - big Omega is the best case algorithm, it is the lower bound algorithm which means no matter what, it takes only a small
period of time complexity you can have, those are the binary search
Theta notation - is the exact growth, no better no worse just a simple algorithm that is balance in both of time complexity
and space complexty, it is the example of merge sort.


Comparison of Function:
    int This tpic is just analyzing which is deteremine the greater or less than the both algoritm in using logarithm approuch
using different type of problem. This applying with log method

Analazing Searching Algorithm:
    Linear Search:
        Linear search is a searching algorithm which is the best case of Big 0(n) is the n we find is the first index of a list or array
        and then the worst case scenario of linear algorithm was to search every n in the list which is the size of an array, and the average is 
        is which is calculating every possible cases divided by the number of elements which is big O(n) linear.
    Binary Search/Tree:
        Binary Search best case is the root or the middle of the index in the list we searching for. there are two types of binary/ which is 
        normal array and tree, tree is just starting from the root then compare the root and the target go on until the value is found, however in the array we
        split the array and check the middle. in the worst case is binary search tree is finding the leaf and aswell as the normal array is until the last element of halfing
        the array. The minimum of worst case time is in a balance tree and maximum can be the height.

Divide and Conquer
    so divide and conquer is a method that recursively or make the problem smaller in to multiple problem, that is just like a binary search, mergesort
those are an algorith searching and sorting with using divide and conquer. In a real world situation example. Learning something like DSA and Ful Stack Dev,
you dont study it straigh straight but divide it in to days. like in monday, focus on DSA and tomorrow is Full Stack Dev. same goes to an Algorithm binary search.
Another example is you want to make your own house, but making it alone is would take so much time, so go and find a workers and give them their specific task.
that is divide and conquer.

Recurrence Relation Key Point to remember:
T(n) = T(recursive call) + work done outside recursion
T(n) = T(n-1) + 1  →  k = n      →  O(n)
T(n) = T(n/2) + 1  →  k = log n  →  O(log n)
Big O   = upper bound
Omega   = lower bound
Theta   = tight bound

T(base case) = 1 always

T(n-k)  + k → k = n      → O(n)
T(n/2^k)+ k → k = log n  → O(log n)


Most Common Notation problem
Pattern 1: T(n) = T(n-1) + 1
Pattern 2: T(n) = T(n-1) + n
Pattern 3: T(n) = 2T(n/2) + 1
Pattern 4: T(n) = 2T(n/2) + n
Pattern 5: T(n) = T(n/2) + 1